(male announcer)
In the criminal justice system,
sexually based offenses are
considered especially heinous.
In New York City,
the dedicated detectives
who investigate
these vicious felonies
are members of an elite squad
known as
the Special Victims Unit.
These are their stories.
[heavy metal music plays]
*
(boy)
You're so beautiful.
(girl)
I love you.
(woman)
If I get a call from
your school one more ti--
Oh, my God!
What are you doing?!
Mom...
I told you to stay
away from my daughter, okay?
Don't touch her!
Calm down,
Mrs. Eldridge.
What did he do to you?
He didn't do anything
to me.
We'll see what the police
have to say about this.
I'm outta here.
No.
No, you're not.
Hey, what are you doing?
Come on!
Kid's name is
Carrie Eldridge.
She locked the door
to her room.
She's crying.
Says he's her boyfriend.
Mom calls it in
as a rape.
You guys couldn't
sort this out?
We hear the "R" word,
we're supposed to call you.
Why don't you just
kick the door down?
(Officer)
Ma'am, these detectives are
from the Special Victims Unit.
(Stabler)
Detective Stabler.
My partner, Detective Benson.
Can you tell us
what happened?
I caught that man
raping my daughter.
(Benson)
Did she tell you
that she was raped?
No.
Ma'am, we can't arrest
your daughter's boyfriend
for having sex with her
if she consented.
He's 21.
She's 15.
That's statutory rape.
I know the law.
Boyfriend still in there?
I took his clothes
so he couldn't leave.
Okay, Officer Harris here
will take you down
to the squad now.
I wanna be here
when Carrie comes out.
We need
your statement.
You bring her down as soon
as Carrie opens that door.
We will.
[knocking softly]
Carrie, my name is Olivia.
I'm a detective.
(Carrie)
My mom is wrong
about Justin.
(Benson)
Your mom went down
to the police station.
(Carrie)
I don't know what she's making
such a big deal about.
Justin and I
were only kissing.
He went out
the window?
He must be freezing.
The ladder to the street
isn't pulled down.
He must've gone
to the roof.
Keep your eyes open
in case he comes back.
Doors were locked.
Stand up.
Am I under arrest?
You 21?
Yeah.
Let's go.
[shivering]
[door opens]
Is Justin okay?
He's Fine.
[door closes]
Did he force you, Carrie?
Force me to do what?
Kiss him?
To have sex with him.
He doesn't force me
to do anything.
And we didn't have sex.
I swear we didn't do it.
Carrie's mom says you did.
She didn't see anything.
We were under the covers, man.
Naked.
Is Carrie in the next room?
Yeah.
[pounds wall]
Carrie?
(Justin)
Are you in there?
Justin!
Justin, is that you?
I love you, Justin.
Do what we said.
I love you too!
[pounds wall]
You see?
She sound like I raped her?
Look...
she's hot.
I used to be your age.
I know what it's like.
You're wrong.
(Denise)
Carrie's just a child.
And he's got her wrapped
around his little finger.
First love, teenagers
can fall hard.
I just don't know
what she sees in him.
Her father feel
the same way?
Last time I saw
her father
was the day I told him
I was pregnant.
I'm not gonna let that happen
to Carrie.
The only thing Justin wants
her for is sex.
He loves me.
That doesn't make it okay
for you to have sex with him.
Because I'm 15?
My birthday's in two months.
And when you're 17,
it's not gonna matter
what I think
or what your mother thinks.
My mother thinks
Justin's a loser.
She's trying to protect you.
She doesn't listen to me.
Talks back to me.
That's when she's
talking to me at all.
Have you ever thought
about getting counseling?
Carrie refuses to go.
She got crazy mad
when I even suggested it.
The way she rewrites
history and--
The shrink would even
kick us out after ten minutes.
I hear these kids at school
talking about a boy
who divorced his dad.
Can a kid really do that?
If you're living
on your own,
the courts can consider
you emancipated.
The only other way is
if your mother gives up
her parental rights.
She's never gonna do that.
Especially now.
Carrie.
Sometimes people your age
get so mad at their parents
that they look for somebody
who they think can rescue them.
That's not what I'm doing.
I really love Justin.
Those two are like magnets.
Romeo and Juliet.
Yeah, except Juliet's
too young and Romeo's too old.
Any chance we can get
Romeo's parents
to put some pressure
on him?
No, they died in a car accident
two years ago.
Wouldn't matter.
Neither one of 'em is ever
gonna admit they did anything.
Well, unless Mom was
in bed with them
and saw what they were doing,
there's no rape case.
(Denise)
Carrie?
Carrie, did you tell them?
(Carrie)
Why are you shouting?
He'll ruin you!
Just like your
so-called father did to me.
Mom, don't do this here.
Come on.
We'll go outside.
Don't tell me what to do!
You stop seeing him!
Mom, I'm never going
to stop seeing him.
You ungrateful little slut.
I gave up everything
for you.
Take it easy,
Mrs. Eldridge.
Keep your hands off of me!
Justin Sharp raped
my daughter.
Now what are you
gonna do about it?
We can't arrest him
for statutory rape
unless we can prove that sexual
intercourse took place.
(Stabler)
We'd need a statement from
Carrie or medical evidence.
Medical evidence.
How do I get that?
Usually, we take the victim
to the hospital
for an examination.
Fine.
Let's go.
Do I have to?
Mrs. Eldridge,
you can't make
Carrie do this.
I'm her mother.
Watch me.
Fine.
Where are you going?
With you.
If the E.R. does a rape kit,
I have to take it
to the crime lab.
(Carrie)
I don't even know
what a rape kit is.
It's a gynecological
exam.
I'll take swabs
to check for semen.
If the DNA matches Justin's,
then we're gonna
arrest him for rape.
Believe me,
it'll match.
I said we didn't have sex.
Doesn't that matter?
We don't need your statement
if we find Justin's
DNA inside you.
Stop wasting
the doctor's time,
and put on the gown.
Carrie Eldridge?
This is a treatment room.
Who are you?
I'm Simone Bryce.
I'm Carrie's attorney.
[curtain slides]
Carrie's what?
Her attorney.
Carrie doesn't need
an attorney.
I'm a lawyer for kids,
and I heard that you need help.
Heard from who?
That's confidential.
What's going on here, Detective?
Carrie's mother
wants her to have a rape kit.
Is that what you want?
No way.
Okay, we're not going to be
needing your services.
Thank you very much,
Doctor.
Wait a minute.
Doctor?
I want Carrie examined!
Mrs. Eldridge.
Shut up!
Look, this has
nothing to do with you.
I'm a parent.
I have rights too.
Not when it comes to Carrie's
privacy and sexual matters.
I don't care what she says.
We're not leaving here
until you've been checked out.
It's her body,
and she's made her decision.
Why don't you take your daughter
home, Mrs. Eldridge?
(Benson)
We're done here.
My daughter's been violated.
Whose side are you on?
Hers.
Carrie agree
to the rape kit?
Nope.
Where's Justin?
I sent him home.
He's not gonna run.
We can call him at any time.
For what?
Endangering the welfare
of a child.
What good is
that gonna do?
Look, it was
statutory rape.
Yeah, I know the law.
I'm just trying to figure out
the best way
through this for Carrie.
Okay, she's 15.
Justin is 21.
He's breaking the law
by having sex with her.
Elliot,
the mother is using us
just like she tried
to use a doctor
to strap her down on the table
and force her legs open.
Would you do that
to one of your daughters?
My daughters have
nothing to do with this.
You really want to
traumatize Carrie?
Let her mom drag
her through the courts
and bully her some more.
(Cragen)
Olivia?
My office.
Why is Denise Eldridge
screaming to One P-P
that you talked her daughter
out of a rape kit?
Carrie didn't want it.
Now that's exactly
what Simone Bryce
told Carrie's mother.
That's funny how
a children's rights attorney
just happened to show up
at the E.R.
She was there
because I called her.
You've got enough
on your plate
without taking on this kid
as a cause.
Well, somebody's
gotta protect her
from that lunatic
mother of hers.
Why are you
calling her that?
You saw how she
humiliated Carrie
in front of the entire squad.
I don't like her.
Well, she has a right
to be upset.
She's upset because
she thinks
Carrie is gonna end up
just like her.
Pregnant without a man.
Denise Eldridge believes
a crime was committed
against her daughter.
Denise Eldridge
is a fruitcake.
(Stabler)
Well, uh--
dessert is served.
What now?
You stay here.
We'll handle this.
Mrs. Eldridge,
how can we help you?
I have the evidence
that Carrie was raped.
Is that a comforter?
From her bed.
That one has the bedsheets
and the pillowcases.
You can get all the DNA
you need off them.
And in this one,
these are a bunch of emails
that Carrie and Justin
sent back and forth
to each other.
(Stabler)
Did you read these emails?
Of course I did.
Do Carrie and Justin admit
to having intercourse
in any of them?
No, but they're proof
of a relationship.
We can't make a case for rape
with Carrie's bedding.
But they probably have
Justin's fluids all over them.
Unless the fluids
are on or in Carrie,
we can't charge rape.
What can you charge?
Endangering the welfare
of a minor.
Well, then why haven't you
arrested Justin for that?
It's a weak case.
And the D.A.'s office might
decline to prosecute.
Oh.
Well, then I guess
I'll have to talk to them.
Won't I?
So what, you guys couldn't deal
with Denise Eldridge
so you sicced her on me?
What happened?
Oh, she blew in here
with her shopping bag
saying you guys weren't doing
anything about her daughter.
She wanted me
to charge you guys
for not arresting
Justin Sharp.
(Stabler)
So what do you want us to do?
Did he rape Carrie?
Letter of the law, yeah.
But we can't prove it.
The sex was consensual.
You charge Justin
with endangering,
it's a misdemeanor,
first offense.
He's not gonna do any time.
So how is justice
served there?
It's not.
Right.
And when Denise comes back next
week with the same accusation--
Why don't you advise her
that unless she has pictures,
we're not prosecuting Justin.
(Stabler)
She's probably not even home.
Well, I'll leave my card
in her mailbox.
With your name on it,
she'll probably rip it up.
Here, use mine.
You know I'm right.
What, that Denise
is a fruitcake? Yeah.
But she shouldn't try
to protect her daughter?
Well, no.
(man)
Are you the police?
(Benson)
Yes, sir.
Is there a problem?
I called the precinct
an hour ago
about the ruckus
from the apartment upstairs.
Buzz us in.
Mrs. Eldridge?
Check out the wall.
Carrie?
Romeo and Juliet killed
themselves, not their parents.
(O'Halloran)
Here's your murder weapon.
Found it
in the incinerator room.
It looks like
the attack started here.
That seems right.
See the arc on the wall?
That's castoff
from the subsequent blows.
Tails on the droplets
in the pattern point
to where the blood came from.
That spot right there.
It's got a pattern in it.
Yeah, it's secondary transfer
from the button on her jeans.
The line next to it
is off the seam
down the side of her pants
from when she stopped,
rolled on her side.
Surprised she made it this far.
Her skull is cracked
wide open.
We're still looking
for all the missing pieces.
How many times
was she hit?
I count five blows
to the head alone.
And she's got wounds
on her torso and extremities.
Dead how long?
She's still warm.
Two hours tops.
Carrie's school says she was
in homeroom this morning.
They're looking for her now,
and Justin's not scheduled
to work today.
Man's coat was
on Carrie's bed.
Gotta be Justin's.
He was here.
Call came in to 911
over an hour ago.
Car was stolen two blocks
from here by a guy and a girl.
Detectives.
Volvo wagon.
Central's already
got the tag.
Belongs to a Marissa Tatro
over here.
Says she left
the keys inside.
Mrs. Tatro?
(Stabler)
Can you tell us what happened.
I was bringing my baby inside
when this guy ran up,
pushed the girl into the car
and took off.
Can you describe them?
They were young.
Teenagers.
I think he had
blood all over his shirt.
The girl was screaming.
Well, what was she saying?
Stuff like,
please don't take me.
We have to go back.
Then he said, "We gotta
get out of here."
Can you find them
with that RADAR thing?
Your car has Theft Track?
Whatever it's called.
(Stabler)
We can activate that.
(Officer)
Don't bother.
Anti-crime unit
in the 2-7 just spotted it.
Tell them to maintain visual.
Don't apprehend
until we get there.
Right! Central,
SVU detectives en route.
Blue Chevy.
Those are the cops.
7 Anti-crime, Take 'em.
(male voice)
Copy that.
[sirens blare]
Police! Freeze!
Stay in the car!
Palms up!
Hands on the dash!
Don't shoot!
We didn't do anything!
This car is stolen.
No, my friend Justin
switched with me!
What about Carrie?
She was with him.
Is she okay?
She was crying.
Like they had a fight.
Carrie walked away,
but Justin grabbed her
and put her in the car.
What car?
Mine.
It's a '99 Mitsubishi.
Silver.
I have the registration.
Something bad happen?
He kidnapped her.
They say where
they were going?
No.
Is this your phone?
No, it's Justin's.
We switched that too.
His only has
local service.
Let's see who he called last.
Yes, Carrie called me.
Did she tell you
where she is?
You know, I can't confirm
or deny that.
This is no time
for legal crap, Simone.
Her boyfriend kidnapped her.
So, y say.
After he murdered
her mother.
Olivia, any conversation
I have with Carrie
is privileged information.
And you don't know Justin
murdered Denise Eldridge.
He left his coat
at the crime scene.
When was that?
Today or last week?
I asked you
to help Carrie.
I am helping her.
She is my client.
Your client is with a guy
who beat her mother
to a bloody pulp.
If there's a crime
being committed here,
there is no privilege.
And you're obstructing justice.
I have not confirmed
what I know, Olivia.
So I am not obstructing
a damn thing.
(Novak)
She's right.
How? Our witness says
that Carrie was kidnapped!
It doesn't matter.
The only way Simone Bryce
can break privilege
is if Carrie tells her
that she was abducted.
Listen, I'm late.
Ask for an adjournment.
There is nothing
I can do to help you.
Yes, Casey, there is.
Get me a subpoena to dump
Simone Bryce's phone.
And when the D.A. asks me
why I need to know
who's calling the Mother Teresa
of Children's Rights,
what do I tell him?
That you're trying to save
a young girl's life.
Simone Bryce's conversations
are privileged.
The numbers of her
incoming calls aren't.
(Morales)
The phone company is dumping
Simone Bryce's phone
and the cell
Justin borrowed.
How long?
They'll email me
as soon as they're done.
Meanwhile, I should take a look
at the text messages
on Justin's cell.
[computer beeps]
(Morales)
This is from 10:12 a.m.
Justin to Carrie:
"We should move in together."
Carrie to Justin:
"Over my mother's dead body."
The murder was
Carrie's idea?
Or wishful thinking.
(Morales)
Justin also called Carrie's
cell phone this morning.
8:56 a.m.
To tell her to come home
after he killed her mother.
[computer chimes]
Email's here.
I called the borrowed
cell phone every half-hour.
Rang, went to voice mail.
(Morales)
After the third time,
went right to voice mail.
He turned it off.
(Stabler)
Smart kid.
Justin probably figured
you were tracking him
by calling the phone.
First call was just before noon.
11:42.
(Morales)
Received at a cell tower
on 125th street.
Called again at 12:30.
Picked up by a tower
in Westchester, Katonah.
They're heading upstate.
Made good time.
(Morales)
Called again around 1:00.
This time they were
in Patterson.
That's when they
turned off the phone.
Were there any calls to Simone
Bryce's office after that?
Two more from the direction
they're heading.
Land line in Stanfordville,
New York at 2:53 and 3:06.
This last one's
nine minutes ago.
Fourth digit of the number
is a nine.
Probably a pay phone.
NYPD?
Benson, Stabler.
Where's the phone?
Across the street.
I got here about ten minutes
after you called,
but your Mitsubishi was
already gone, hasn't been back.
Anybody see them?
An attendant
at the gas station
half-mile up the road
said your suspects got gas,
paid, left, then came back
20 minutes later.
Thanks so much.
Well, they stuck around
for a while.
That little restaurant that
we passed coming in to town.
Maybe they grabbed
a bite to eat there.
'Scuse me.
Sit wherever you'd like.
Wish we had the time.
Have these two kids
been in here today?
I didn't start
'til 4:00,
but I'll be glad
to ask the day man.
Justin Sharp?
(Benson)
You know him?
All his life.
He used to work for me.
He lived up here?
Summers.
Parents have a place
about two miles away.
Don't know why he'd
be there now, though.
Hunting season's over.
Are there guns in the house?
[pounding on door]
(Justin)
Who is it?
Detective Benson, Justin.
Open the door.
Please leave us alone.
You're either coming
out here,
or we're coming
in to get you.
(Carrie)
No, Justin, don't!
Okay, all right.
We're coming out.
You got guns, drop 'em.
No guns.
Put your hands on your head,
both of you.
Carrie, are you okay?
Yes.
Justin Sharp,
you're under arrest
for murder and kidnapping.
He didn't kidnap me!
You have the right
to remain silent.
If you give up that right,
[groans]
anything you say can
and will be used against you
in a court of law.
You have a right
to an attorney.
(Stabler)
What's wrong, can't stand to
look at your own work?
You hit her 14 times.
Lacerated liver,
fractured ribs.
Punctured lungs.
You bashed her head in so hard,
her brain broke clean
off its stem.
He's innocent until
proven guilty.
(Cragen)
Oh, he's guilty.
His coat was found
at the crime scene,
and a witness saw blood
all over his shirt.
That coat could have
been there for weeks.
And we'd really like
to see those clothes.
That is,
if you have them.
Same witness says he saw
you force Carrie
into the car you stole.
(Lanagan)
If this person can make
a positive I.D.,
why hasn't Justin
stood in a lineup?
(Lanagan)
That's what I thought.
No physical evidence.
No positive I.D.
But motive.
Denise Eldridge was
ruining your life.
She wanted you
charged with rape.
You were going to prison.
You kill her,
she's off your back.
You get Carrie.
How's that sound?
I didn't do it.
(Cragen)
Aw, come on, Justin.
We saw Carrie's text message
on your cell phone.
You know, only way you were
ever gonna be together
was over her mother's
dead body?
It's gonna go
so much easier on you,
if you just tell us the truth.
I didn't kill Carrie's mother.
This was Carrie's idea,
wasn't it?
No.
It was her lawyer's.
I told Carrie minors have
a better chance
of being emancipated
if their parents are dead
and there's no
appointed guardian.
I wasn't suggesting
someone kill her mother.
Carrie, you have to tell me
what happened.
(Carrie)
I don't know what happened.
Stop protecting him.
She's in shock, Olivia.
We know that Justin
was in your apartment.
I didn't see him there.
You had to.
You were right outside
with him when he stole the car.
Why can't you just
leave us alone?
Because he murdered
your mother.
And unless you tell us
what you know,
he's gonna get away with it.
I love him.
He's all I have.
Simone, I need her help.
Can I please go?
I'm taking her home.
Come on.
Carrie knows exactly
what happened.
If she doesn't give it up,
the case against Justin
is circumstantial at best.
You know, I'd really like
to find those bloody clothes.
Where would you like us to
search that we haven't already?
He could have dumped
them anywhere
between here
and Duchess County.
All right, well then,
Justin or Carrie have to talk.
They are not going
to tell us anything.
They could have told
somebody else.
Like who?
I don't know.
But you're probably going
to vent to somebody
if you hate your girlfriend's
mother so much
you want to kill her.
Or, Carrie may have confided
in one of her friends.
We recreate the movements
before their murder.
Maybe we turn up somebody
who saw or heard something.
(Principal)
Carrie was in her first
two classes yesterday.
But nobody saw her
after second period.
And that ends around 9:00.
Did her teachers notice anything
unusual about her behavior?
Mm-mm, not that anybody
reported to me.
Did something happen
to Carrie at home?
What would make you ask that?
Carrie's been having
problems here at school.
She's absent a lot.
Doesn't focus.
Falls asleep in class.
(Fin)
That sounds like drugs.
Her mother had her tested.
Everything came back negative.
She hang out with that crowd?
She doesn't hang out
with anybody.
She pretty much keeps
to herself.
(Munch)
You have any other
contact with her?
Oh, about two weeks ago.
One of her teachers told me
that she didn't
have a winter coat.
Then another teacher sent
her down to the office
because one of her shoes
fell apart.
You call her mother?
Of course.
But she didn't seem to care.
But then when Carrie
cut school last week,
her mother flipped out.
Sent a truant officer
to the store
where Carrie's
boyfriend works.
(manager)
I told Justin,
if Carrie came by again
when she was supposed to be in
school, I'd have to let him go.
(Benson)
Justin a slacker?
The opposite.
Always on time.
Great with the customers.
Hard worker.
I want to promote him
to assistant manager.
So what's stopping you?
Spends too much time talking
to his girlfriend
on the web cam.
I caught him at it
again yesterday.
We were told he wasn't scheduled
to work yesterday.
He wasn't.
I asked him to fill in
for someone who was sick.
What time did he come in?
Right at 10:00.
But he left 15 minutes later.
He say why?
Emergency.
Then he called back at 2:00
and asked for the rest
of the week off.
Any chance that conversation
he had with Carrie was recorded?
It's probably on one
of our servers.
(Justin on video)
Carrie what's wrong?
Can you come over
to my house?
What's wrong?
Why are you home?
I need you, please.
Look, something bad happened.
Okay, I'll be right there.
I'll be right there.
(Carrie)
Okay.
Carrie got there first.
Keep watching.
[panting nervously]
[remote clicks]
(Stabler)
There's blood on her shirt.
You gonna tell us
what really happened?
I have nothing to say.
This is when
you should talk, Justin.
They know you're innocent.
I know you're in love
with Carrie.
But nobody is worth going
to prison for 25 years.
(Benson)
How much can she love you?
She's willing to let you
go to jail
for something that she did?
Can they arrest Carrie
based on that tape?
No, it doesn't prove
that she murdered her mother.
Then I'm not saying anything.
What's the problem here,
Olivia?
Your client has been
lying to us all along.
Both to you
and to me.
I'm not lying.
Save it, Carrie.
Justin told us everything.
He wouldn't do that.
He said that he called you
yesterday.
And that's why you left school
after second period.
I don't believe you.
Okay, Carrie,
I will handle this.
How you were covered
with blood
when you called him
on the web cam at work.
(Bryce)
Olivia, stop.
You said that something
terrible happened.
And how you begged him
to leave work and to help you--
No.
And how he made you
take a shower
to wipe off your mother's blood.
Okay, this interview
is over.
Justin loves me.
I have to see him.
Oh, I'm sorry, Carrie,
but we let him go
after he told us
what you did.
Carrie don't listen to her.
Let's go.
We searched the sinks
and the shower drains
in your apartment.
And we found blood
and hairs just like yours.
(Bryce)
Carrie, come on.
(Benson)
I understand why you wanted
to kill your mother.
But how could you let
the man that you love
take a murder rap for you?
I didn't want him to.
(Bryce)
Carrie--
But he said that it was
the only way to protect us.
That you couldn't prove
who did it if we didn't talk.
Don't say another word.
I don't care!
It doesn't matter because
Justin doesn't love me anymore.
[gasps]
I did it.
I killed her.
Do whatever you want with me.
[crying]
(male officer)
Right this way.
Carrie?
Justin?
She said you were--
Why did you tell them
everything?
No, I swear, I didn't
say a thing!
But they saw you.
They saw you on the web cam.
You lied to me?
She can't do that,
can she?
They do it all the time.
That's why I told you
to stop.
You lying bitch!
I hate you!
I hate you,
you lying bitch!
You lying bitch!
I hate you!
You ruined my life,
you lying bitch!
Hey, how'd it go?
Judge remanded Carrie
to Bridges.
At least she won't
be at Rikers.
I really misjudged her.
All I saw was a desperate
teen needing help.
Look, I saw my daughter going
out with a grown man.
Sometimes it's hard to keep
your own crap out of the work.
Speaking of crap,
psych defense.
Premenstrual
Dysphoric Disorder?
PMS made her do it.
You're not buying this,
are you?
What, that we can't
control our emotions
because we're premenstrual?
Yeah, that's bull.
We're not talking about PMS.
Women with Premenstrual
Dysphoric Disorder
experience severe headaches,
depression, and paranoia.
Sometimes,
they even hallucinate
or hear voices.
That's not Carrie.
Anger made her
kill her mother.
Judging from the crime scene
photos,
I'd say it's very possible
that she lost control
of herself.
Great, so she's gonna get off
because of this Twinkie defense?
I'm not gonna let that happen.
Examine Carrie.
Find me a way
to beat Simone Bryce.
(Carrie)
I got my period
when I was twelve,
and that's when
the migraines started.
Did you have
any other problems?
I was happy one minute
and crying the next.
All the time?
Except for, like,
the ten days after my period.
Carrie, did you ever tell
your mother about this?
She said I was being
a drama queen.
Did you tell your doctor?
He told me to take
a muscle relaxant
and use a heating pad.
Sometimes those cramps
were so bad
that I didn't even want
to go to school.
But my mother made me.
How did that make
you feel?
Angry.
She didn't want me to be happy.
Like with Justin.
Nobody ever loved her
the way he loves me.
And that's not my fault.
She didn't know how
to love anyone except herself.
Did she love you?
I don't know.
I think that's
why I killed her.
What do you remember?
Nothing.
One second we were talking,
and then the next,
she was just lying on the floor.
I was covered in blood.
I started crying.
Called Justin on the web cam.
And I felt so sleepy.
So you believe her story?
It's consistent
with PMDD.
It could've triggered
a manic outburst.
What about the calm
after the storm?
Carrie was dissociating.
I read her medical reports.
Heavy cramping and migraines
are documented.
If you add to that
the mood swings
and the fact that
she was premenstrual
when she killed her mother,
then it's classic PMDD.
Ugh, do you think a jury
will really believe this?
They have before.
Came back with a manslaughter
conviction for a young woman
charged with bludgeoning
her mother to death in England.
That's where Simone Bryce
got her inspiration.
If it'll work over there,
it'll work over here.
(Justin)
I left work right after
Carrie called me.
When I got to the apartment,
Carrie let me in
and I checked on Mrs. Eldridge
to see if she was
still breathing.
That's how I got
her blood on me.
And then I told Carrie
that we had to get out of there.
And how did Carrie react?
She put on her coat
like a zombie or something.
I was so freaked out,
I forgot mine.
And then we left.
(Bryce)
And where did you take her?
Out to the street.
We couldn't get a cab.
And Carrie
could barely walk,
so I had to drag her.
And she started screaming.
Was that the first time
you ever heard her scream?
Uh, no, no.
It happened a lot.
It was kind of like
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
One second she's fine,
and then she would
just lose it.
Nothing further.
Justin, did Carrie tell you
she killed her mother?
Your Honor?
Answer the question,
Mr. Sharp.
I don't want to.
(Judge)
You don't have that option.
Answer, or you'll be
in contempt of court.
Fine.
I'll never say anything
to hurt you.
(Judge)
Step down,
you're in contempt.
Officer, take him
to the lockup.
I love you...
no matter what.
Hey, you on a case?
Eldridge.
Defense is recalling us.
They must be desperate.
Well, they are.
Carrie's going down.
So now they want to
dirty up her mother.
Portray her as a drunk.
What?
Wait, was she?
Her blood alcohol level
was normal when she died.
But Denise Eldridge had
advanced cirrhosis.
Another two years,
it would have killed her.
Are you sure it's
from the drinking?
I didn't find any
hepatitis antibodies,
so it has to be the booze.
[knock on door]
No wonder I hated
Denise so much.
All along, Carrie was just
trying to get me to protect her.
Look at this.
Denise didn't care
about her daughter.
All she cared about
was where she was
gonna get her next drink.
Why'd you come here?
To find out what else
I was wrong about.
These pots and pans haven't
been used in so long,
they got cobwebs on 'em.
Sounds like the ones
in my kitchen.
Hey, check this out.
I found it underneath
the cabinet.
Birth control pills.
Prescribed to Carrie
by the Free Clinic?
Hmm.
Carrie was on day six
of her period.
(Bryce)
Is that supposed
to mean something?
(Benson)
Yeah.
It means that Carrie
wasn't crazy
when she killed her mother.
(Bryce)
How could you know that?
Women who suffer
from PMDD
always have one week where
they don't have any symptoms.
All their anxiety,
psychosis, depression is gone.
One normal week
starting from around
day four of their period.
Carrie killed her mother
on day six.
Which means she couldn't
have had any symptoms.
I was early this month.
You put this defense
in her head.
She tied my hands
behind my back
and wouldn't let me
tell the whole story.
About the drinking.
(Bryce)
Yeah.
(Benson)
You didn't want
anyone to know.
You were too ashamed.
Carrie.
Tell me what really happened.
It--it can't hurt you anymore.
I was at school that day
when Justin called me on my cell
and told me that--
he told me that he didn't
want to see me anymore,
because he was afraid
of my mother.
And I tried to deal,
but I just couldn't.
So I went home.
My mother was there.
And I, I tried to talk to her.
I really did.
But she--she just picked up
a bottle and started drinking.
[sniffles]
She said that if she
couldn't put Justin in prison,
that she was gonna get him
fired from his job.
She was gonna do
anything she could
so that he wouldn't
love me anymore.
And I told her that
I would always be with Justin.
And that I'd rather
be homeless
than spend another
minute with her.
And then she slapped me
really hard.
[sobs]
She called me a slut.
And she hit me again.
And again.
And I just lost it.
I grabbed a lamp.
And I hit her over
and over and over.
[sniffles]
I loved my mom very much.
But when she was drunk,
she wasn't a mother.
[sobbing]
Olivia, what are
you going to do?
I have to tell the D.A.
Hold on.
You know it wasn't murder.
Why didn't you present
that as evidence?
She refused to talk about it.
You remember
what that was like.
You shouldn't have talked
to Carrie and Bryce without me.
I know.
You did a good job with
the birth control pills though.
Jury will definitely convict.
Plead her out, Casey.
You just won it for us.
Why?
My mother was
an English professor.
When I was 16, I started dating
one of her students.
He was a senior.
He was 21 years old.
And he asked me to marry him.
And I said yes.
Because I wanted to get
away from my mother.
She found out,
and she told me
that if I didn't
stop seeing him,
that she would have him
kicked out of college.
And I told her that I was
moving out.
She was halfway through
a bottle of vodka.
And she dropped it.
It shattered all over
the floor and...
And then she picked up
the jagged edge
of the bottle and...
and she came at me.
Screaming...
"I'll never let anyone
else have you."
And so I kicked her.
Hard.
And then I kicked her again.
And she went flying
across the room into the wall.
Then she slid down
to the floor.
I'd never hurt her before.
I ran out.
I was so afraid.
You didn't kill
your mother, Olivia.
I know what it's like
to want to.
That's how I know
Simone Bryce.
I called her back then.
She was a law student.
And she helped me
survive it.
Why didn't Carrie
say something?
Because then
the abuse becomes real.
If you keep quiet...
you can pretend that it's not.
(Judge)
Are the people satisfied
that the conditions
of the plea agreement
have been met?
(Novak)
Yes, Your Honor.
The defendant will rise.
Carrie Lynn Eldridge,
I find you guilty
of Manslaughter
and sentence you to five years
in the custody of the State
Department of Correction.
We're adjourned.
[gavel bangs]
She'll be in a juvenile
facility, no hard time.
I polled the jury.
11 of them thought
she was guilty.
You had your Murder Two
conviction.
I know.
Why'd you plead her out?